
%%%%%%%%%%
% Lang Ref Man
%%%%%%%%%%
\chapter{Language Reference Manual}\label{refman}

\section{Preamble}
Herein is the language reference manual for the BALL programming
language. As a language, BALL is designed for user simplicity and ease
of programming. Thus, users can create simulations and manipulate
statistics with ease by using the constructs presented below.

\subsection{Purpose of the Language}
The main purpose of BALL is to allow users to easily construct
simulations of baseball games. BALL defines language constructs that
help the user acheive this goal this goal. The design of the BALL
language also has in mind other related objectives, such as allowing
statistical data to be easily viewed and compared. To do this, BALL
encapsulates many low-level tasks that are present in more general
programming languages.

\subsection{BALL Compilation Process}\label{ref_compile}
BALL is a compiled language. Each BALL program comes from a single
source file. Source code is stored in files ending with the
\texttt{.ball} extension (for example: \texttt{hello.ball}), and is
provided to the BALL compiler. Valid BALL source files must end with a
newline. The compiler will then automatically generate the low-level
code that is syntactically equivalent to the original source and
execute it. Our reference implementation of a BALL compiler uses Java
as a target language.

BALL is an imperative programming language. It is similar in structure
to Java, though numerous changes and innovations have been made to
help the user quickly learn and create BALL programs. This reference
manual will explain each feature of BALL from the simplest, atomic
components upwards while specifying the requirements a BALL compiler
must fulfill with respect to each language construct.

\input{refman/data.tex}

\pagebreak
\input{refman/lexical.tex}

\input{refman/expr.tex}

\input{refman/stmt.tex}

\input{refman/builtin.tex}

\input{refman/csv_spec.tex}

\pagebreak

\section{Complete Grammar}\label{grammar}

\codelisting{FullGrammar}{Full Grammar}{../docs/ball_full.y}

